Update ocis_release_notes.adoc (#4838)
owncloud/docs: modules/ROOT/pages/ocis_release_notes.adoc

[discrete]
=== File Versions: Design Overhaul

File versions received a design overhaul so that you can go back easily in the version history of a file. With the new design of the file versions feature, you now have even easier access to a comprehensive version history for each file. Every time a file is modified or updated, a new version is created and stored, preserving a complete timeline of changes. This allows you to track and revert to previous versions as needed, ensuring data integrity and eliminating the risk of accidental data loss.

[discrete]
=== Administration Settings

This update brings a range of functions to streamline user, group, and space administration, enhancing the overall management experience. Let's explore the exciting new capabilities:

[discrete]
==== Users Administration:

* Filter Chips for Groups and Role: +

> You can now conveniently filter users based on groups and roles, making it easier to locate and manage specific user segments efficiently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://m2.material.io/components/chips#filter-chips[Filter chips] use tags or descriptive words to filter content. With that, you can now conveniently filter users based on groups and roles, making it easier to locate and manage specific user segments efficiently.
```
Explain the term `Filter chips`.

Author: I would not start explaining UI elements here. we should rather leve the word "Chip" out and only speak of "filter" if this makes it more comprehensible

- We added the possibility to restict the creation of public links based on user roles (permission). [#5690](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5690)

- Added possibility to assign roles based on OIDC claims: [#6048](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/6048)

- Default quota based on user role: With this enhancement roles can now get configured witha default quota (eg. Admins should have a default quota of 100GB, Users should have a default quota of 50GB). [#5616](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5616)

- Set default quota for project spaces: Additionally to `set-space-quota` for setting quota on personal spaces we now have `Drive.ReadWriteQuota.Project` for setting project spaces quota. [#5660](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5660)

- Automatically emtpy the trashbin (off per default): Introduction of a new cli command to purge old trash-bin items. [#5500](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5500)

// === Known Issues
=== Breaking Changes

> - Metadata in MessagePack: Metadata are no longer stored in the xattr of a file, but in a dedicated, more scalable and robust file in the binary `MessagePack` format.  [cs3org/reva#3728](https://github.com/cs3org/reva/pull/3728)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Metadata in MessagePack: Metadata are no longer stored in the `xattr` (extended attributes) of a file, but in a dedicated, more scalable and robust file in the binary `MessagePack` format.  [cs3org/reva#3728](https://github.com/cs3org/reva/pull/3728)
```

- Disable login for specific users: This new option in the administration settings allows to disable / enable the login for specific users. By setting the `accountEnabled` property to `false` for a user via the graph API. Users can be disabled (i.e. they can no longer login). [#5588](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5588)

- New service `eventhistory`: It is a service that stores events and provides a grpc API to retrieve them. Users will notice this enhancement by the bell on the top right in the Web UI and the corresponding notifications (ex: if a user receives a share or becomes a member of a space). 

> - New service "policies": The policies-service provides a new grpc api which can be used to return whether a requested operation is allowed or not. Open Policy Agent is used to determine the set of rules of what is permitted and what is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New service `policies´: The policies-service provides a new grpc api which can be used to return whether a requested operation is allowed or not. Open Policy Agent is used to determine the set of rules of what is permitted and what is not.
```

> - New service "policies": The policies-service provides a new grpc api which can be used to return whether a requested operation is allowed or not. Open Policy Agent is used to determine the set of rules of what is permitted and what is not.

Reviewer: fixed

* *Regular List View* +
The Regular List View offers a familiar and comprehensive approach to file organization.
* *Tiles View* +
The Tiles View introduces a visually appealing and intuitive way to browse your files and folders. In this mode, files and folders are displayed as colorful and resizable tiles, providing a visually engaging experience. Users can preview file contents and relevant details directly within the tiles, allowing for quick identification and navigation. This is particularly beneficial for users who prioritize visual recognition and prefer a visually rich interface.

[discrete]
=== Trash Bins for Spaces

The Separate Trash Bin for Spaces introduces individual trash bins for each space within your organization's file system. A space represents a dedicated area where teams collaborate on specific projects, departments, or initiatives. With this feature, accidental file deletions are a thing of the past, as files deleted within a space are now moved to a separate trash bin specific to that space.

[discrete]
=== Deny Access

> The Deny Access feature, which is *experimental and not ready for production environments*, allows users to share folders with groups, but deny access to a single person in that group. Example: If you share the "Birthday Present" folder with all users in the organization, you want to exclude the one person whose birthday is coming up. This use case is now possible, but not yet production ready and disabled by default. To enable this feature, the [variable](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/services/s-list/frontend.html#environment-variables) `FRONTEND_OCS_ENABLE_DENIALS` needs to be set to to `true`. Please contact {oc-support-url}[ownCloud Support] or give us your feedback via {oc-central-url}[ownCloud Central] so that we can finalize this long-awaited feature with the help of your testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Deny Access feature, which is *experimental and not ready for production environments*, allows users to share folders with groups, but deny access to a single person in that group. Example: If you share the "Birthday Present" folder with all users in the organization, you want to exclude the one person whose birthday is coming up. This use case is now possible, but not yet production ready and disabled by default. To enable this feature, the https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/services/s-list/frontend.html#environment-variables[variable] `FRONTEND_OCS_ENABLE_DENIALS` needs to be set to to `true`. Please contact {oc-support-url}[ownCloud Support] or give us your feedback via {oc-central-url}[ownCloud Central] so that we can finalize this long-awaited feature with the help of your testing.
```

- We added the possibility to restrict the creation of public links based on user roles (permission). https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5690[#5690]

- Added possibility to assign roles based on OIDC claims: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/6048[#6048]

- Default quota based on user role: With this enhancement roles can now be configured with a default quota (eg. Admins should have a default quota of 100GB, Users should have a default quota of 50GB). https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5616[#5616]

- Set default quota for project spaces: Additionally to `set-space-quota` for setting quota on personal spaces we now have `Drive.ReadWriteQuota.Project` for setting project spaces quota. https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5660[#5660]

- Automatically emtpy the trashbin (off per default): Introduction of a new cli command to purge old trash-bin items. https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/pull/5500[#5500]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

=== General

We are pleased to announce the availability of ownCloud Infinite Scale 3.0.0 along with its clients for web, Windows, MacOS, Linux, iOS and Android.

=== Antivirus (ICAP)

The Antivirus interface ensures secure file sharing by protecting against trojans, viruses, and other malicious software. It scans files using an external Antivirus scanning engine before storing them, preventing the spread of infected files. The integration of antivirus scanners through ICAP (Internet Content Adaptation Protocol) allows offloading of scanning to a dedicated service, improving performance and scalability. The interface works for example with ClamAV, a comprehensive virus scanner that detects various forms of malware in different file types. Read more: https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/services/s-list/antivirus.html

Note: Because Infinite Scale is capable of asynchronous post-processing, the system can efficiently handle a large number of simultaneous file scans without causing delays or bottlenecks that keep end users waiting. Read more: https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/services/s-list/postprocessing.html#virus-scanning

=== File Firewall

> The file firewall adds an additional layer of security to the file-level. It allows to define rules and criteria to restrict file uploads based for example on file extensions or mime types. This granular control helps prevent unauthorized access and data breaches, ensuring sensitive information remains protected. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The file firewall adds an additional layer of security to the file-level. It allows rules and criteria to be defined to restrict file uploads based, for example, on file extensions or mime types. This granular control helps prevent unauthorized access and data breaches, ensuring sensitive information remains protected. 
```

> Note: The file firewall utilizes Infinite Scales policies service to check whether a requested operation is allowed or not. To do so, Open Policy Agent (OPA) is used to define the set of rules of what is permitted and what is not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: The file firewall utilizes Infinite Scale's policies service to check whether a requested operation is allowed or not. To do so, Open Policy Agent (OPA) is used to define the set of rules of what is permitted and what is not.
```

Policies are written in the Rego query language. Read more: https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/services/s-list/policies.html

=== Tags
Tags provide a flexible and intuitive way to categorize files. By assigning relevant tags to files, users can easily locate specific documents through powerful search functions. This eliminates the need to remember precise file names or navigate through complex folder structures, saving valuable time and effort. Unlike traditional folder-based systems, tags offer a flexible way to organize files that transcends rigid hierarchies. Users can assign multiple tags to a single file, enabling them to classify and retrieve documents using different criteria simultaneously. This adaptability allows for personalized organization methods that align with individual preferences and working styles.

Tags are saved as metadata on the storage without the need for a dedicated database to assure resilience and scalability of the system.

> === Fulltext search

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Fulltext Search
```

Fulltext search revolutionizes the way you search and retrieve files, making it easier and more efficient to find the information you need. It enables you to search for files based on their content, not just their titles or metadata. This means you can enter keywords or phrases related to the actual text within documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and more. Say goodbye to manually scanning through countless files and folders — finding the right document is now just a search away.

> Fulltext search utilizes Apache Tika for a more advanced content extraction. Apache Tika ensures lightning-fast search results, delivering near-instantaneous responses to your queries. Whether you have a large document repository or a vast number of files, full text search will provide you with swift and accurate results, enabling you to access the information you need without delay.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fulltext search utilizes Apache Tika for more advanced content extraction. Apache Tika ensures lightning-fast search results, delivering near-instantaneous responses to your queries. Whether you have a large document repository or a vast number of files, full text search will provide you with swift and accurate results, enabling you to access the information you need without delay.
```

> With Apache Tika you can search the contents of the filetypes: PDF, DOCX, XLSX, PPTX, ODF, HTML, XML, EPUB, RTF, Tar, RAR, AR, CPIO, Zip, 7Zip, Gzip, BZip2 and many more ...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With Apache Tika you can search the contents of files of the types: PDF, DOCX, XLSX, PPTX, ODF, HTML, XML, EPUB, RTF, Tar, RAR, AR, CPIO, Zip, 7Zip, Gzip, BZip2 and many more ...
```

Read more: https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/services/s-list/search.html#tika-extractor

=== Space Templates

> Applying a template is a breeze. When creating a new project Space, simply rightclick on a folder of your choice, select "Create Space from selection" and the entire folder structure, complete with subfolders and files, will be instantly generated for a project Space. Save time and ensure consistency by eliminating the need to manually create folders and subfolders every time you start a new project or onboard a new team. Space templates ensure a consistent folder structure across projects providing a standardized, efficient, and customizable approach to organizing your documents. Space Templates are only available to users with the permission to create Spaces.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Applying a template is a breeze. When creating a new project space, simply right-click on a folder of your choice, select "Create Space from selection" and the entire folder structure, complete with subfolders and files, will be instantly generated for a project space. Save time and ensure consistency by eliminating the need to manually create folders and subfolders every time you start a new project or onboard a new team. Space templates ensure a consistent folder structure across projects providing a standardized, efficient, and customizable approach to organizing your documents. Space Templates are only available to users with the permission to create spaces.
```

> Applying a template is a breeze. When creating a new project Space, simply rightclick on a folder within of your choice, select "Create Space from selection" and the entire folder structure, complete with subfolders and files, will be instantly generated for a project Space. Save time and ensure consistency by eliminating the need to manually create folders and subfolders every time you start a new project or onboard a new team. Space templates ensure a consistent folder structure across projects providing a standardized, efficient, and customizable approach to organizing your documents. Space Templates are only available to users with the permission to create Spaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Applying a template is a breeze. When creating a new project Space, simply rightclick on a folder of your choice, select "Create Space from selection" and the entire folder structure, complete with subfolders and files, will be instantly generated for a project Space. Save time and ensure consistency by eliminating the need to manually create folders and subfolders every time you start a new project or onboard a new team. Space templates ensure a consistent folder structure across projects providing a standardized, efficient, and customizable approach to organizing your documents. Space Templates are only available to users with the permission to create Spaces.
```

> === Custom user roles

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Custom User Roles
```

> Infinite Scale ships with the default user roles Admin, Space Admin, User and Guest. Each role has different permissions. For example, only Space Admins can create Spaces, but people with the role "User" cannot create a Space. With custom roles, you can now configure roles that fit the needs of your organization. For example, if you need custom roles for your school, you can configure the roles "Teacher" and "Pupil", and don't give pupils the permission to create public links. If you are interested in creating custom roles, reach out for us on talk.owncloud.com

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Infinite Scale ships with the default user roles admin, space admin, user and guest. Each role has different permissions. For example, only space admins can create spaces, but people with the role "User" cannot create a space. With custom roles, you can now configure roles that fit the needs of your organization. For example, if you need custom roles for your school, you can configure the roles "Teacher" and "Pupil" and not give pupils the permission to create public links. If you are interested in creating custom roles, reach out to us on talk.owncloud.com
```

> Infinite Scale ships with the default user roles Admin, Space Admin, User and Guest. Each role has different permissions. For example only Space Admins can create Spaces, but people with the role "User" can not create a Space. With custom roles, you can now configure roles that fit to the needs of your organization. If you need for example custom roles for your school, you can configure the roles "Teacher" and "Pupil", whereas pupils don't get the permission to create public links. If you are interested in creating custom roles, reach out for us on talk.owncloud.com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Infinite Scale ships with the default user roles Admin, Space Admin, User and Guest. Each role has different permissions. For example, only Space Admins can create Spaces, but people with the role "User" cannot create a Space. With custom roles, you can now configure roles that fit the needs of your organization. For example, if you need custom roles for your school, you can configure the roles "Teacher" and "Pupil", and don't give pupils the permission to create public links. If you are interested in creating custom roles, reach out for us on talk.owncloud.com
```

> === File Versions: Design overhaul

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== File Versions: Design Overhaul
```

> File versions received band new design overhaul so that you can go back easily in the version history of a file. With the new design of the file versions feature, you now have an even easier access to a comprehensive version history for each file. Every time a file is modified or updated, a new version is created and stored, preserving a complete timeline of changes. This allows you to track and revert to previous versions as needed, ensuring data integrity and eliminating the risk of accidental data loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
File versions received a design overhaul so that you can go back easily in the version history of a file. With the new design of the file versions feature, you now have even easier access to a comprehensive version history for each file. Every time a file is modified or updated, a new version is created and stored, preserving a complete timeline of changes. This allows you to track and revert to previous versions as needed, ensuring data integrity and eliminating the risk of accidental data loss.
```

=== Administration Settings
This update brings a range of functions to streamline user, group, and space administration, enhancing the overall management experience. Let's explore the exciting new capabilities:
==== Users Administration:

> - Filter Chips for Groups and Role: You can now conveniently filter users based on groups and roles, making it easier to locate and manage specific user segments efficiently.

Reviewer 3: Chips? No idea what these are supposed to be.

Author: enjoy ;-) https://m2.material.io/components/chips#filter-chips

Reviewer 3: > enjoy ;-) https://m2.material.io/components/chips#filter-chips

Ah, I see. That makes sense. Thank you! :-)

*Batch Actions:*
- Quota: Administrators can now modify the storage quota for multiple users at once, simplifying the management of storage allocations.
- Add to Group: Administrators can add multiple users to a group simultaneously, streamlining the process of assigning users to specific teams or projects.
- Remove from Group: Administrators can remove multiple users from a group in one go, ensuring efficient group membership management.
- Disable Login: Administrators can now disable login access for multiple users simultaneously, providing better control over user accounts.
- Edit Login (Dis/-allow): Administrators can enable or disable login access for multiple users, providing greater flexibility in managing user authentication.

> *Edit Username:* Administrators have the ability to edit the usernames, which is very important if users change their last name. Remember: In owncloud 10 users where not allowed to marry and change names due to technical limitations ;-) With Infinite Scale, marriage is now possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Edit Username:* Administrators have the ability to edit the usernames, which is very important if users change their last name. Remember: In ownCloud 10 users where not allowed to marry and change names due to technical limitations ;-) With Infinite Scale, marriage is now possible.
```

> *Edit Username:* Administrators have the ability to edit the usernames, which is very important if users change their last name. Remember: In owncloud 10 users where not allowed to marry and change names due to technical limitations ;-) With Infinite Scale, marriage is now possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Edit Username:* Administrators have the ability to edit the usernames, which is very important if users change their last name. Remember: In ownCloud Server, users where not allowed to marry and/or change names due to technical limitations. With Infinite Scale, marriage or name changes are now possible.
```

> *Edit Username:* Administrators have the ability to edit the usernames which is very important if users change their last name. Remember: In owncloud 10 users where not allowed to marry and change names due to technical limitations ;-) With Infinite Scale, marriage is now possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Edit Username:* Administrators have the ability to edit the usernames, which is very important if users change their last name. Remember: In owncloud 10 users where not allowed to marry and change names due to technical limitations ;-) With Infinite Scale, marriage is now possible.
```

==== Spaces Administration:
List All Spaces: With appropriate permissions, administrators can now view a comprehensive list of all spaces within the organization. The following attributes are visible:
- Space Name
- Managers of the Space
- Amount of Members in the Space
- Remaining Quota
- Last Modified Date
- Status
*Not visible:*
- View Contents of a Space: Please note that this update does not enable the viewing of contents within a space, including files, space images, or descriptions. This limitation ensures the security and privacy of space contents even from the eyes of an administrator.

=== GDPR Export
This update focuses on fulfilling the legal requirements of Article 20 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) - the Right to Data Portability. This feature empowers users to exercise greater control over their personal data and ensures compliance with GDPR guidelines.
The GDPR Export feature enables users to easily export their personal data stored within Infinite Scale, in compliance with the Right to Data Portability outlined in Article 20 of the GDPR.

> Users can now request and receive an export of their personal data within a JSON file, saved to the users personal files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Users can now request and receive an export of their personal data in a JSON file, saved to the users' personal files.
```

> The export can be requested any time in selfservice by the user.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The export can be requested any time in self-service by the user.
```

=== Secret File Drop

> The formerly know feature as "Uploader" has been renamed to "Secret File Drop", but the functionallity stays the same: The Secret File Drop feature allows users to generate unique links that can be shared with external parties. Recipients can anonymously drop files through these links without the need for a registered account or visibility into other submissions. This ensures data privacy and eliminates the risk of unauthorized access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The feature formerly known as "Uploader" has been renamed to "Secret File Drop", but the functionality stays the same: The Secret File Drop feature allows users to generate unique links that can be shared with external parties. Recipients can anonymously drop files through these links without the need for a registered account or visibility into other submissions. This ensures data privacy and eliminates the risk of unauthorized access.
```

Effortless File Collection: With Secret File Drop, collecting files becomes a seamless process. Simply create a file drop link, share it with recipients, and let them submit files directly without any additional steps or complications. This feature saves time and eliminates the need for manual file collection methods, such as email attachments or physical hand-ins.

> === 3 View modes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== 3 View Modes
```

Users can now choose three distinct view modes, enhancing file browsing and navigation options:

> Compact List View: The Compact List View provides a condensed and space-efficient representation of your files and folders, designed for users who prefer a streamlined view.
> Regular List View: The Regular List View offers a familiar and comprehensive approach to file organization.
> Tiles View: The Tiles View introduces a visually appealing and intuitive way to browse your files and folders. In this mode, files and folders are displayed as colorful and resizable tiles, providing a visually engaging experience. Users can preview file contents and relevant details directly within the tiles, allowing for quick identification and navigation. Particularly beneficial for users who prioritize visual recognition and prefer a visually rich interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Compact List View: The Compact List View provides a condensed and space-efficient representation of your files and folders, designed for users who prefer a streamlined view.
- Regular List View: The Regular List View offers a familiar and comprehensive approach to file organization.
- Tiles View: The Tiles View introduces a visually appealing and intuitive way to browse your files and folders. In this mode, files and folders are displayed as colorful and resizable tiles, providing a visually engaging experience. Users can preview file contents and relevant details directly within the tiles, allowing for quick identification and navigation. Particularly beneficial for users who prioritize visual recognition and prefer a visually rich interface.
```

> === Trashbins for Spaces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Trash Bins for Spaces
```

> The Separate Trash Bin for Spaces introduces individual trash bins for each Space within your organization's file system. A space represents a dedicated area where teams collaborate on specific projects, departments, or initiatives. With this feature, accidental file deletions are a thing of the past, as files deleted within a space are now moved to a separate trash bin specific to that space.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Separate Trash Bin for Spaces introduces individual trash bins for each space within your organization's file system. A space represents a dedicated area where teams collaborate on specific projects, departments, or initiatives. With this feature, accidental file deletions are a thing of the past, as files deleted within a space are now moved to a separate trash bin specific to that space.
```

=== Deny Access (Experimental - not for production environement)

> The Deny Access feature allows users to share folders with groups, but deny access to a single person in that group. Example: If you share the "Birthday Present" folder with all users in the organization, you want to exclude the one person whose birthday is coming up. This use case is now possible, but not yet production ready and disabled by default. Please contact us and give us your feedback so that we can finalize this long-awaited feature with the help of your testing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Deny Access feature allows users to share folders with groups, but deny access to a single person in that group. Example: If you share the "Birthday Present" folder with all users in the organization, you want to exclude the one person whose birthday is coming up. This use case is now possible, but not yet production ready and disabled by default. Please contact ownCloud Support or give us your feedback via ownCloud Central so that we can finalize this long-awaited feature with the help of your testing. 
```
It must be clear whom to contact / get in touch with.

> The Deny Access feature allows users to share folders with groups, but deny access to a single person in that group. Example: If you share the "Birthday Present" folder with all users in the organization, you want to exclude the one person who has a birthday. This use case is now possible, but not yet production ready and disabled by default. Please contact us and give us your feedback so that we can finalize this long-awaited feature with the help of your testing. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Deny Access feature allows users to share folders with groups, but deny access to a single person in that group. Example: If you share the "Birthday Present" folder with all users in the organization, you want to exclude the one person whose birthday is coming up. This use case is now possible, but not yet production ready and disabled by default. Please contact us and give us your feedback so that we can finalize this long-awaited feature with the help of your testing. 
```
